# INSTALL Guide For MACS
Time-stamp: <2019-12-12 13:26:11 taoliu>

Please check the following instructions to complete your installation.

## Prerequisites

MACS v2.2.x requires Python3. We have tested MACS in Python3.6, 3.7
and 3.8. 

MACS also requires [Numpy](http://www.scipy.org/Download) (>=1.17).

GCC is required to compile `.c` codes in MACS v2 package, and python
header files are needed. If you are using Mac OSX, I recommend you
install Xcode; if you are using Linux, you need to make sure
`python-dev` package is installed -- the actual package name depends
on the Linux OS distribution, you are using.

[Cython](http://cython.org/) is **NOT** required although most of MACS
codes are written in Cython. But if you plan to generate `.c` files
from `.pyx` by yourself, you can install Cython (>=0.29), then use
`setup.py` script.

## Prepare a virtual Python environment 

I strongly recommend installing your MACS program in a virtual
environment, so that you have full control of your installation and
won't mess up with your system libraries. To learn about virtual
environment, read [this
article](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html). A simple way to
create a virtual environment of Python3 is

`$ python3 -m venv MyPythonEnv/`

Then active it by

`$ source MyPythonEnv/bin/active`

## Install through PyPI

The easiest way to install MACS is through PyPI system. Get `pip` if
it's not available in your system. If you create a virtual environment
as described before, your `pip` command will install everything under
the folder you specified previously through `python3 -m env` command.

Then under the command line, type `pip install macs2`. PyPI will
install Numpy automatically if it is absent.

To upgrade MACS2, type `pip install --upgrade macs2`. It will check
currently installed MACS2, compare the version with the one on PyPI
repository, download and install a newer version while necessary.

## Install through Conda

Please check [MACS2 page on
bioconda](https://anaconda.org/bioconda/macs2) for instructions.

## Install through Debian APT

MACS is included in Debian Stretch/Buster/Unstable blessed by some
kind of Supper Cow Powers.

## Install from source

MACS uses Python's [setuptools](https://setuptools.readthedocs.io) for
source code installations. To install a source distribution of MACS,
unpack the distribution tarball, or clone Git repository with `git
clone git@github.com:taoliu/MACS.git`. Go to the directory where you
unpacked MACS, and simply run the install script:

 `$ python setup.py install`

By default, the script will install python library and executable
codes according to the environment. When you run the command under
virtualenv, the script will install to the virtual environment
instead. When you run it without virtual environment, you may need to
be root or administrator of the machine so as to complete the
installation. Please contact the system administrator if you want
their help. If you need to provide a nonstandard install prefix, or
any other nonstandard options, you can provide many command line
options to the install script. Use the `--help` option to see a brief
list of available options:

 `$ python setup.py --help`

For example, if I want to install everything under my own HOME
directory, use this command:

 `$ python setup.py install --prefix /home/taoliu/`

As mentioned in *Prerequisites*, you don't need to install Cython in
order to install MACS. When Cython is available, this setup script
will regenerate C codes from Pyx codes when necessary. When Cython is
not available, this setup script will just use the C codes included in
the release package (or your Github clone) for installation.

## Configure environment variables

*Note*, if you are using a virtual environment, you should skip this
section since all the corresponding environment variables have been
correctly set while you `activate` the environment.

After running the setup script, you might need to add the install
location to your `PYTHONPATH` and `PATH` environment variables. The
process for doing this varies on each platform, but the general
concept is the same across platforms.

### PYTHONPATH

To set up your `PYTHONPATH` environment variable, you'll need to add
the value `PREFIX/lib/pythonX.Y/site-packages` to your existing
`PYTHONPATH`. In this value, X.Y stands for the majorâ€“minor version of
Python you are using (such as 3.7; you can find this with
`sys.version[:3]` from a Python command line). `PREFIX` is the install
prefix where you installed MACS. If you did not specify a prefix on
the command line, MACS will be installed using Python's sys.prefix
value.

On Linux, using bash, I include the new value in my `PYTHONPATH` by
adding this line to my `~/.bashrc`::

 `$ export
 PYTHONPATH=/home/taoliu/lib/python3.7/site-packages:$PYTHONPATH`

Using Windows, you need to open up the system properties dialog and
locate the tab labeled Environment. Add your value to the `PYTHONPATH`
variable, or create a new `PYTHONPATH` variable if there isn't one
already.

### PATH

Just like your `PYTHONPATH`, you'll also need to add a new value to
your PATH environment variable so that you can use the MACS command
line directly. Unlike the `PYTHONPATH` value, however, this time
you'll need to add `PREFIX/bin` to your PATH environment variable. The
process for updating this is the same as described above for the
`PYTHONPATH` variable::

 `$ export PATH=/home/taoliu/bin:$PATH`

-- Tao Liu <vladimir.liu@gmail.com>
