en:celery||aipo
en:celery||apio
en:celery||celer
en:celery||celery
en:celery||céleri
en:celery||karfus
en:celery||listna zelena
en:celery||salierai
en:celery||sedano
en:celery||selderij
en:celery||seler
en:celery||selerijas
en:celery||seller
en:celery||selleri
en:celery||sellerie
en:celery||soilire
en:celery||zeler
en:celery||zeller
en:celery||țelină
en:celery||σέλινο
en:celery||сельдерей
en:celery||целина
en:celery||ขึ้นฉ่าย
en:celery||セロリ
en:celery||旱芹
en:crustaceans||crostacei
en:crustaceans||crustaceans
en:crustaceans||crustacee
en:crustaceans||crustacés
en:crustaceans||crustáceos
en:crustaceans||crústach
en:crustaceans||koorikloomad
en:crustaceans||korýši
en:crustaceans||krebsdyr
en:crustaceans||krebstiere
en:crustaceans||krustaċej
en:crustaceans||kräftdjur
en:crustaceans||kôrovce
en:crustaceans||raki
en:crustaceans||rákfélék
en:crustaceans||schaaldieren
en:crustaceans||skorupiaki
en:crustaceans||vēžveidīgie
en:crustaceans||vėžiagyviai
en:crustaceans||äyriäiset
en:crustaceans||καρκινοειδή
en:crustaceans||ракообразни
en:crustaceans||ракообразные
en:crustaceans||ครัสเตเชียน
en:crustaceans||甲壳亚门
en:crustaceans||甲殻類
en:eggs||bajd
en:eggs||eggs
en:eggs||eier
en:eggs||eieren
en:eggs||huevos
en:eggs||jaja
en:eggs||jajca
en:eggs||kiaušiniai
en:eggs||munad
en:eggs||munat
en:eggs||olas
en:eggs||ouă
en:eggs||ovos
en:eggs||tojás
en:eggs||uibheacha
en:eggs||uova
en:eggs||vajcia
en:eggs||vejce
en:eggs||ägg
en:eggs||æg
en:eggs||oeuf
en:eggs||oeufs
en:eggs||œufs
en:eggs||œuf
en:eggs||αυγά
en:eggs||яйца
en:eggs||ไข่
en:eggs||卵
en:eggs||雞蛋
en:fish||fisch
en:fish||fish
en:fish||fisk
en:fish||hal
en:fish||kala
en:fish||kalat
en:fish||peixe
en:fish||pescado
en:fish||pesce
en:fish||pește
en:fish||poisson
en:fish||ribe
en:fish||ryba
en:fish||ryby
en:fish||vis
en:fish||zivis
en:fish||éisc
en:fish||ħut
en:fish||žuvis
en:fish||ψάρια
en:fish||риба
en:fish||рыба
en:fish||ปลา
en:fish||魚
en:gluten||auzas
en:gluten||avižos
en:gluten||gluteen
en:gluten||gluteeniton
en:gluten||gluten
en:gluten||glutina
en:gluten||glutine
en:gluten||glutén
en:gluten||glútan
en:gluten||lepek
en:gluten||nisu
en:gluten||γλουτένη
en:gluten||глутен
en:gluten||глютен
en:gluten||กลูเต็น
en:gluten||グルテン
en:gluten||麸质
en:lupin||altramuces
en:lupin||csillagfürt
en:lupin||lubinai
en:lupin||lupiin
en:lupin||lupiinit
en:lupin||lupin
en:lupin||lupina
en:lupin||lupine
en:lupin||lupinen
en:lupin||lupini
en:lupin||lupīna
en:lupin||lúipín
en:lupin||tremoço
en:lupin||vlčí bob
en:lupin||vlčí bôb
en:lupin||volčji
en:lupin||łubin
en:lupin||λούπινο
en:lupin||лупина
en:lupin||люпин
en:lupin||ลูพิน
en:lupin||ルピナス属
en:lupin||羽扇豆
en:milk||bainne
en:milk||išrügų
en:milk||lait
en:milk||laktoos
en:milk||laktozi
en:milk||lapte
en:milk||latte
en:milk||leche
en:milk||leite
en:milk||lõssi
en:milk||maito
en:milk||melk
en:milk||milch
en:milk||milk
en:milk||mjölk
en:milk||mleko
en:milk||mlieko
en:milk||mléko
en:milk||mælk
en:milk||tej
en:milk||ħalib
en:milk||γάλα
en:milk||молоко
en:milk||суроватка
en:milk||นม
en:milk||乳
en:milk||牛乳
en:molluscs||blötdjur
en:molluscs||bløddyr
en:molluscs||gliemji
en:molluscs||mehkužci
en:molluscs||mięczaki
en:molluscs||moilisc
en:molluscs||moliuskai
en:molluscs||molluschi
en:molluscs||molluscs
en:molluscs||molluski
en:molluscs||molluskid
en:molluscs||mollusques
en:molluscs||moluscos
en:molluscs||moluște
en:molluscs||mäkkýše
en:molluscs||měkkýši
en:molluscs||nilviäiset
en:molluscs||puhatestűek
en:molluscs||weekdieren
en:molluscs||weichtiere
en:molluscs||μαλάκια
en:molluscs||мекотели
en:molluscs||มอลลัสกา
en:molluscs||軟体動物
en:molluscs||软体动物
en:mustard||garstyčios
en:mustard||gorczyca
en:mustard||gorčično seme
en:mustard||horčica
en:mustard||hořčice
en:mustard||mostarda
en:mustard||mostaza
en:mustard||mosterd
en:mustard||moutarde
en:mustard||mustard
en:mustard||mustarda
en:mustard||mustár
en:mustard||muștar
en:mustard||senap
en:mustard||senape
en:mustard||senf
en:mustard||sennep
en:mustard||sinappi
en:mustard||sinep
en:mustard||sinepes
en:mustard||σινάπι
en:mustard||горчица
en:mustard||синап
en:mustard||มัสตาร์ด
en:mustard||マスタード
en:mustard||芥末醬
en:nuts||cnónna
en:nuts||diófélék
en:nuts||fructe cu coajă lemnoasă
en:nuts||fruits à coque
en:nuts||frutos de cáscara
en:nuts||frutta a guscio
en:nuts||noten
en:nuts||nozes
en:nuts||nuts
en:nuts||nötter
en:nuts||nødder
en:nuts||orechy
en:nuts||oreški
en:nuts||orzechy
en:nuts||pähkinät
en:nuts||pähklid
en:nuts||rieksti
en:nuts||riešutai
en:nuts||schalenfrüchte
en:nuts||skořápkové plody
en:nuts||ġewż
en:nuts||καρποί με κέλυφος
en:nuts||орехи
en:nuts||ядки
en:nuts||อัลมอนด์
en:nuts||坚果
en:nuts||種実類
en:peanuts||amendoins
en:peanuts||arachides
en:peanuts||arachidi
en:peanuts||arahide
en:peanuts||arašidi
en:peanuts||arašidy
en:peanuts||cacahuetes
en:peanuts||erdnüsse
en:peanuts||földimogyoró
en:peanuts||jordnötter
en:peanuts||jordnødder
en:peanuts||jádra podzemnice olejné
en:peanuts||karawett
en:peanuts||maapähkinät
en:peanuts||maapähklid
en:peanuts||orzeszki ziemne
en:peanuts||peanuts
en:peanuts||pinda
en:peanuts||piseanna
en:peanuts||zemesrieksti
en:peanuts||žemės riešutai
en:peanuts||αραχίδες
en:peanuts||арахис
en:peanuts||фъстъци
en:peanuts||ถั่วลิสง
en:peanuts||ラッカセイ
en:peanuts||花生
en:sesame-seeds||graines de sésame
en:sesame-seeds||granos de sésamo
en:sesame-seeds||nasiona sezamu
en:sesame-seeds||seesaminsiemenet
en:sesame-seeds||seesamiseemned
en:sesame-seeds||sementes de sésamo
en:sesame-seeds||semi di sesamo
en:sesame-seeds||semințe de susan
en:sesame-seeds||sesam
en:sesame-seeds||sesame seeds
en:sesame-seeds||sesamfrön
en:sesame-seeds||sesamfrø
en:sesame-seeds||sesamzaad
en:sesame-seeds||sezama sēklas
en:sesame-seeds||sezamo sėklos
en:sesame-seeds||sezamovo seme
en:sesame-seeds||sezamová semena
en:sesame-seeds||sezamové semeno
en:sesame-seeds||szezámmag
en:sesame-seeds||síolta seasamain
en:sesame-seeds||ġulġlien
en:sesame-seeds||σπόροι σησαμιού
en:sesame-seeds||сезам
en:sesame-seeds||сусамово семе
en:sesame-seeds||งา
en:sesame-seeds||ゴマ
en:sesame-seeds||芝麻
en:soybeans||pónairí soighe
en:soybeans||soia
en:soybeans||soijapavut
en:soybeans||soja
en:soybeans||sojabönor
en:soybeans||sojaoad
en:soybeans||sojas pupas
en:soybeans||sojų pupelės
en:soybeans||soybeans
en:soybeans||szójabab
en:soybeans||sójové boby
en:soybeans||sójové bôby
en:soybeans||zrnje soje
en:soybeans||σόγια
en:soybeans||соя
en:soybeans||فول الصويا
en:soybeans||ถั่วเหลือง
en:soybeans||ダイズ
en:soybeans||大豆类制品